Air flows in and out of the lungs
through tubes called airways.
In COPD, or Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease,
the walls of the two large airways,
called bronchi, are damaged and thickened.
The channel air passes through is narrowed,
which makes it harder to breathe.
Cells in the airways that produce mucus
become larger, producing more mucus,
which causes a phlegmy cough.
COPD also causes changes in the
smaller airways, called the bronchioles.
They become inflamed in response
to irritating particles and gases in cigarette smoke.
Excess fluid accumulates
and inflammatory cells gather.
They release a continuous stream of
substances that produce inflammation.
The substances enter the airway walls
and airspaces, or alveoli,
at the end of the bronchioles.
The small airways are normally held open
by attachments to the elastic airspace walls.
When the walls are damaged,
the small airways collapse.
Air is trapped in the alveoli;
it is harder to fully exhale
or to fill the lungs when you inhale,
which leaves your body without the oxygen it needs.